52 TIME OF ACTION

writer’s opinions of incidental remarks. In making reports, scientific or otherwise, the past tense should always be used. The following is an example of a proper scientific report:—

“When the Congress of the Behaviourists assembled on the third day, a public experiment was carried out in the presence of the delegates and the local university professors to test the ability of pigs to distinguish artificial pearls from real ones. Two professors were in charge of the pigs in the yard, properly numbered from one to twenty-four. After the President called the meeting to order, Professor Lavinsky led Pig No. One by the right ear to a square previously marked. A thermometer was put in the pig’s mouth, and the professor’s assistant listened with a stethoscope held close to the subject’s sides in order to observe its heart reactions, while a string of artificial pearls was held forth about thirty centimeters from the pig’s snout for thirty minutes. After the reactions, if any, were properly recorded, a string of genuine pearls was produced at the same distance, and the subject’s reactions were observed and recorded in the same manner. The number of gruntings was also recorded. The experiment was applied in identical manner to all the twenty-four subjects. After the complete series of experiments was carried out, and the records showed no noticeable difference in the subjects’ reactions to real and artificial pearls, the Congress unanimously came to the conclusion that pigs are [eternal truth or general statement] not capable of distinguishing between real and artificial pearls of the kinds used. The meeting was adjourned at 12.30.”

Another very common use of the past which should be noticed by Chinese students is in the form of phrases like I knew, I thought, I didn’t know, I didn’t quite realize, I forgot, which are forms for expressing a previous thought or idea, usually given up at present. I thought is the same as 我以為 and implies that I do not think so now. I knew = 我早知道, means I knew this before it