212
MODIFICATION

hyphenated words have a dominant (or chief) stress on the first words, as pen-knife, hand-bag, class-mate, class-room, day-time ['pen-naif, 'hændbæg, 'klɑ:smeit, 'klɑ:rum, 'deitaim] (which could all be written without hyphens as single words). If the chief stress falls on the second word, there should be generally no hyphen, as good will, short story, New Year, foul play [gud 'wil, ʃɔːt 'stɔːri, njuː 'jɛː, faul 'plei]. (3) The difference between a hyphenated word (gun-cotton, 綿火藥) and a full compound word without hyphen (gunpowder) chiefly depends on age and usage. Generally, the older a word is and the more permanent the compound combination is felt to be, the more likely are we to drop the hyphen: as madman, moonshine, sunlight, sunrise, waterproof, waterfall, rainfall, football, fireplace, but fire-brigade, water-tight, sun-beam, water-melon, basket-ball, side-walk (or sidewalk) and time-table.*

* After admitting the weltering chaos of the English language in this respect, Mr. H. W. Fowler, co-editor of the Concise Oxford Dictionary, believes that, after the lapse of twenty years, he has found a rule which “seems capable of converting the chaos... into something like order.... The simple rule is that in such compounds the legitimacy of hyphenating depends solely on pronunciation: it must only be done if the two parts are said with a single (or with one clearly predominant) stress, and that falls on the first.” (See the inserted remarks in the Preface in the 1929 revised edition.) Because headmaster is pronounced with the stress on mas-, and not on head, one should not hyphen it, but should write either headmaster or head master, “either of which will serve.” And because water ouzel is pronounced with two equal stresses, there is no choice but to leave the compound as two separate words without hyphen. This rule is psychologically correct and historically justified by the fact of Germanic stress-shifting. It does not alter the fact, however, that until Mr. Fowler's rule is generally followed by the majority of writers and printers, “usage” remains still “a weltering chaos.”